Serverless changelog update for Jan. 6, 2025 (#251)
elastic/docs-content: serverless/pages/serverless-changelog.asciidoc

For serverless changes in Cloud Console, refer to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud/current/ec-release-notes.html[Elasticsearch Service Documentation: Release notes].

[discrete]
[[serverless-changelog-01062025]]
=== January 6, 2025

[discrete]
[[deprecations-01062025]]
==== Deprecations
* Disables Elastic Observability Serverless log stream and settings pages ({kibana-pull}203996[#203996]). 
* Removes Logs Explorer in Elastic Observability Serverless ({kibana-pull}203685[#203685]). 

[discrete]
[[features-01062025]]
==== New features
* Introduces case observables in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}190237[#190237]).

[discrete]
[[enhancements-01062025]]
==== Enhancements

> * Adds the ability to pass any field to ServiceNow using the ServiceNow SecOps connector with a JSON field called "additional fields" ({kibana-pull}201948[#201948]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds a JSON field called "additional fields" to ServiceNow cases when sent via connector, containing the internal names of the ServiceNow table columns ({kibana-pull}201948[#201948]).
```

* Makes the "Copy" action visible on cell hover in Discover ({kibana-pull}204744[#204744]).
* Updates the `EnablementModalCallout` name to `AdditionalChargesMessage` in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}203061[#203061]).
* Adds more control over which Elastic Security Serverless alerts in Attack Discovery are included as context to the large language model ({kibana-pull}205070[#205070]).
* Adds a consistent layout and other UI enhancements for {ml} pages ({kibana-pull}203813[#203813]).

[discrete]
[[fixes-01062025]]
==== Fixes
* Fixes an issue that caused dashboards to lag when dragging the time slider ({kibana-pull}201885[#201885]).
* Updates the CloudFormation template to the latest version and adjusts the documentation to reflect the use of a single Firehose stream created by the new template ({kibana-pull}204185[#204185]).
* Fixes Integration and Datastream name validation in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}204943[#204943]).
* Fixes an issue in the Automatic Import process where there is now inclusion of the `@timestamp` field in ECS field mappings whenever possible ({kibana-pull}204931[#204931]).

> * Fixes an Automatic Import issue to safely generate access for field names that are not valid Painless identifiers in `if` contexts ({kibana-pull}205220[#205220]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Allows Automatic Import to safely parse Painless field names that are not valid Painless identifiers in `if` contexts ({kibana-pull}205220[#205220]).
```

For serverless changes in Cloud Console, refer to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud/current/ec-release-notes.html[Elasticsearch Service Documentation: Release notes].

[discrete]
[[serverless-changelog-01062025]]
=== January 6, 2025

[discrete]
[[deprecations-01062025]]
==== Deprecations

> * Disables log stream and settings pages ({kibana-pull}203996[#203996]). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Disables Elastic Observability Serverless log stream and settings pages ({kibana-pull}203996[#203996]). 
```

> * Removes Logs Explorer ({kibana-pull}203685[#203685]). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Removes Logs Explorer in Elastic Observability Serverless ({kibana-pull}203685[#203685]). 
```

[discrete]
[[features-01062025]]
==== New features

> * Introduces case observables (phase 0 & 1) ({kibana-pull}190237[#190237]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Introduces case observables in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}190237[#190237]).
```

[discrete]
[[enhancements-01062025]]
==== Enhancements

> * Passes any field to ServiceNow using the ServiceNow SecOps connector with a JSON field called "additional fields" ({kibana-pull}201948[#201948]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Adds the ability to pass any field to ServiceNow using the ServiceNow SecOps connector with a JSON field called "additional fields" ({kibana-pull}201948[#201948]).
```

> * Configures appearance color mode to sync dark mode with the system value ({kibana-pull}203406[#203406]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Adds the ability to configure the appearance color mode to sync dark mode with the system value ({kibana-pull}203406[#203406]).
```

> * Makes the "Copy" action visible on cell hover ({kibana-pull}204744[#204744]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Makes the "Copy" action visible on cell hover in Discover ({kibana-pull}204744[#204744]).
```

> * Updates `EnablementModalCallout`` name to `AdditionalChargesMessage` ({kibana-pull}203061[#203061]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Updates `EnablementModalCallout`` name to `AdditionalChargesMessage` in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}203061[#203061]).
```

> * Provides users additional control over which alerts in Attack Discovery are included as context to the large language model (LLM) ({kibana-pull}205070[#205070]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Adds more control over which Elastic Security Serverless alerts in Attack Discovery are included as context to the large language model ({kibana-pull}205070[#205070]).
```

* Adds a consistent layout and other UI enhancements for {ml} pages ({kibana-pull}203813[#203813]).

> * Sets HTTP2 as the default if SSL is enabled, and adds a deprecation log if SSL is not enabled or protocol is set to HTTP1 ({kibana-pull}204384[#204384]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

[discrete]
[[fixes-01062025]]
==== Fixes
* Fixes an issue that caused dashboards to lag when dragging the time slider ({kibana-pull}201885[#201885]).

> * Switches to the latest CloudFormation template ({kibana-pull}204185[#204185]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Updates the CloudFormation template to the latest version and adjusts the documentation to reflect the use of a single Firehose stream created by the new template ({kibana-pull}204185[#204185]).
```

> * Fixes Integration and Datastream name validation ({kibana-pull}204943[#204943]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes Integration and Datastream name validation in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}204943[#204943]).
```

> * Ensures that the field mapping for Automatic Import contains the `@timestamp` field whenever possible ({kibana-pull}204931[#204931]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes an issue in the Automatic Import process where there is now inclusion of the @timestamp field in ECS field mappings whenever possible ({kibana-pull}204931[#204931]).
```

> * Fixes how Automatic Import generates accesses for the field names that are not valid Painless identifiers ({kibana-pull}205220[#205220]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes an Automatic Import issue to safely generate access for field names that are not valid Painless identifiers in `if` contexts ({kibana-pull}205220[#205220]).
```

> * Aligns native box connector configurations ({kibana-pull}203241[#203241]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Aligns the Box Native Connector configuration fields with the source of truth in the connectors codebase, correcting mismatches and removing unused configurations ({kibana-pull}203241[#203241]).
```

> * Fixes the "Show all agent tags" option when the agent list is filtered ({kibana-pull}205163[#205163]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes the "Show all agent tags" option in Fleet when the agent list is filtered ({kibana-pull}205163[#205163]).
```

> * Data frame analytics: Updates Results Explorer flyout footer buttons alignment ({kibana-pull}204735[#204735]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Updates the Results Explorer flyout footer buttons alignment in Data Frame Analytics ({kibana-pull}204735[#204735]).
```

> * Data frame analytics: Adds a missing space between lines in delete job modal ({kibana-pull}204732[#204732]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Adds a missing space between lines in Data Frame Analytics delete job modal ({kibana-pull}204732[#204732]).
```

> * Anomaly Detection: Fixes an issue where the Refresh button in the Datafeed counts table was unresponsive ({kibana-pull}204625[#204625]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes an issue where the Refresh button in the Anomaly Detection Datafeed counts table was unresponsive ({kibana-pull}204625[#204625]).
```

> * Fixes an inference timeout check in File Upload ({kibana-pull}204722[#204722]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes the inference timeout check in File Upload ({kibana-pull}204722[#204722]).
```
